Hey guys welcome back to the course so in this lecture we're going to talk about client budgets what
do they mean why are they important.
Now a lot of you might think that why is a client budget important what should be important is whether
or not I can make a margin on it or that it's something that I can make very easily or do very well.
Now while that is important all those things are important.
Trust me those are things that you need to have a healthy business.
It's also important to work with clients that have good budgets.
This is one of the biggest differences you'll notice between established firms and new firms.
New businesses typically will work with clients that have budgets that are all over the place and oftentimes
will work with people that have budgets who don't fit their project needs prayer more established companies
often have the opportunity work with companies been around for a while used to paying what it should
be.
You know what they should be paying for a project and have had the longevity to stick around to see
successful projects work and so have been able to kind of reinvest and probably have some sort of a
war chest to draw from.
Now you obviously want to get to that second thing I just described you're working with the cream of
the crop kind of clients.
Now the reason why bigger budgets or healthier budgets are at least proportionate budgets are important
is because of the project's success.
General bigger budgets make better projects.
Say that 10 times fast.
It's very important.
A bigger budget can pay for better graphic design it can pay for you to research problems come up with
novel solutions.
It can pay for when things break it can pay for additional features it can pay for a complete pivot
away from the original concept of the idea into something they found out is more successful now a dead
project is only as valuable to you as the dollar amount that you pocketed from it.
Thats very important if you make money off a project and then it fails.
It is literally just the dollar amount you made out of it.
Thats it a successful project is a fantastic portfolio item.
Its something that can constantly give you leads.
Its something you can constantly show off and its the shining star in your portfolio.
A dead project is kind of hard.
Its hard to show it off.
Its hard to use them as references.
Its just in general a dead end.
In general you want to be building your business around momentum.
You want to do projects that not only help you now help you land your next project you want to focus
on this being kind of a snowball effort.
You want to start with projects that will help you get better projects in the future a project that
fails is going to be a project that doesnt help you improve in the future.
So focus on Budget.
Budget is typically the primary problem.
Obviously bad entrepreneurs will be hard to work with and they'll probably make the product quality
suffer.
But in general any bad project you make will probably be because you are hamstrung by the amount of
money and time you could spend on it too many times in our history we've had to build apps that are
just awful they fail and they could have been successful had the client had more budget for us to at
least push them through other iterations of their idea.
At the very beginning you can't always be picky but try to focus on the ones that can actually be realistic
about the money that they have and how to apply that towards making their project successful.
Try not to focus on clients that just have enough money to make it work because those ones are at a
high likelihood of failure and that is just a project that doesn't help you.
It doesn't help you moving forward.
Try to focus on things that push your momentum forward.
All right guys.
Any other questions post in the group discussion.
Budgets are very very important.
There's a lot of things we could say on budgets.
That's the biggest takeaway I think you need to know is that bigger budgets better projects better portfolio
better success rate all that successful projects are good.
That's a lot of people might think that that's not something that you should worry yourself about once
you push out the door.
It's no longer your child you know successful development firms are focused on client success and project
success beyond their actual scope of development.
All right guys see in the next lecture.